(dramatic music)
- No you don't.
(Bell yells)
It's reading all my moves.
This thing is different than
any monster we've
ever fought before.
Wait a sec. Is it enhanced?
(Bell grunting)
(swords striking)
- [Aisha] Don't go in too deep.
- Backup's on the way.
- No, please don't.
You need to run.
(monster squelches)
Don't attack it!
Don't get hit.
(Bell grunting)
(metal clanging)
(suspenseful music)
(rocks striking metal)
- Lady Chigusa!
(Chigusa grunts)
- [Welf] Wait, it ran away?
- [Ouka] Chigusa.
Hang in there, Chigusa.
(Chigusa groaning)
(wistful music)
- It's the moss from my dream.
It's going to overtake
everything.
(water rushing)
(suspenseful music)
(weapon striking)
(monster groaning)
(teeth grinding)
(heavy footsteps)
(shards of glass breaking)
(elves whimpering)
(ragged breathing)
- Please, don't!
No.
(screaming)
(opening song)
- Oh, Solar Rays.
I beseech you to ward off
affliction of Soul light.
- What the hell?
It's not working.
- The seed penetrated
them and took root.
It's growing all over their
bodies now.
It's been sapping their
strength to use as nourishment.
- That means healing magic and
potions aren't going to help.
It'll just make it
worse by causing
the vines to grow even more.
- Chigusa.
- So it's basically a parasite.
The monster is using
them like a leech.
- I've never seen
anything like this.
I don't think I have what it
takes to be able to save them.
Sorry.
- What we need
right now are ideas.
Cassandra, please share your
thoughts about this with us.
Is there anything we can
possibly do to save them?
- Ugh.
- Nobody is dead yet and
we have a full party.
I know we can save them if
we put our heads together.
(mournful music)
- Um. In order to save them,
we should go back
up to the surface.
We need a more seasoned healer.
If we hurry, maybe the Dea Saint
from the Dian Cecht
Familia could save them.
Or we try destroying the source
that implanted the seeds.
That might wipe the plant out.
- Okay, what about
the rest of you?
I wanna hear
everything you've got.
The only thing that
I'm good for is combat,
which makes me
worthless right now.
So please think. I need you
to lend me your expertise.
- Yes, Master Bell. Of course.
- Yeah. Bell is totally right.
So let's put our heads together,
and maybe we can come up
with some sort of plan.
- Mmm-hmm.
- Right.
- Personally I think
we've heard our options.
The very ones, Lady Cassandra
has already mentioned.
- So either we go back to the
surface,
or we go farther in and hunt
that thing down. Correct?
- Uh-huh. I'm in favor of
leaving the dungeon immediately.
It's an enhanced species,
and it's assimilated a
large number of stones.
We all saw it fight Master Bell.
Trying to eliminate it would be
dangerous.
- That's for sure.
But now that begs the question.
What kind of species are we up
against?
- If I had to guess,
maybe a Moss Huge?
Though there
shouldn't be any here.
Those things usually only
spawn on the middle floors.
- It must have been
consuming magic stones
and then made its way
down to the lower floors.
- Even if we want to kill it,
this floor is so expansive.
We might have some real
trouble finding it again.
We also need to consider the
condition of the injured,
which is why I think returning
to the surface is best.
- [Luvis] No. That thing
that attacked us
is bound to show up again.
- Luvis.
- Yeah. Never pictured a world
where I'd be saved by you,
Little Rookie.
My party is still out there.
They were left behind, and
they're still on this floor.
You have to take out that
son of a bitch for me.
Please, save my comrades!
- You've got to be kidding me.
Does that mean you ditched
your party and ran away?
- Hell no! Never.
I was the one acting as a decoy.
- What do you mean by that?
And just what makes
you so certain
the monster will show
up here again?
- It was after these.
- Magic stones?
- Seriously? It was hunting
you down for magic stones?
I've never heard of something
like that happening before.
- Well, it's the truth.
That Moss Huge took us
completely by surprise
and stole our stones.
Then it ate them all
right in front of us.
And soon after, it
started to attack us
with overwhelming force.
(monster growls)
We ended up with these vines
implanted in our bodies,
which left us with no
choice but to flee.
But it kept coming!
It kept chasing after us.
- You took the stones to
act as a decoy in order to
divert attention from the
others in your party, I assume.
- Mmm-hmm.
The four of us were all
experienced level threes.
We're used to exploring
the lower floors
and knew not to
underestimate them.
But that bastard was far
beyond anything we imagined.
I beg you. Help us,
Little Rookie.
I know my companions
still have to be
trapped on this floor somewhere.
Oh, and one more thing.
Dormul's party's also here.
They need to be warned.
- Dormul's down here too?
- Well now, isn't that
fantastic?
This thing thinks
adventurers are
a walking magic stone buffet.
- Well, damn. We picked
a hell of a time
to go on an expedition. I'm
going to tell you right now
that we can't let
it go unchecked.
Either we take out
that monster now,
or a guild exterminator
squad will later.
- I'm of the mind that we should
kill it right here and now.
The longer that it takes,
the worst the
situation will get.
And I refuse to just leave Luvis
and his companions behind.
- You said it.
And if that thing is on
the lookout for these,
then it should come right to us.
- Agreed. Besides
it's too risky.
They might not last long
enough to reach the surface.
And there's no guarantee
that Dea Saint
could cure a parasitic
infection like this.
- That may be true,
but we also can't say
for sure that defeating the
monster will cure them either.
- Actually, I think the odds
of it working are pretty high.
Moss Huge typically
splits its moss apart
and then creates
copies of itself.
But those always disappear
if you defeat the main body.
What? Come on now.
Don't give me that look.
I want to avoid
fighting that thing
as much as you do, you know.
But from what we've seen so far,
I really doubt it's possible
for us to escape peacefully.
- [Liliruca] We've all
had the chance to say
our piece at this point. Master
Bell will need to be the one
who makes the final call.
- We are going to
defeat that thing. Come on.
We'll head down to where Luvis's
party was first attacked.
(footsteps)
- I'm so sorry.
- It's okay don't be.
And remember, I'm also
just a level two.
I should be apologizing to you.
If only I had more
healer abilities to use,
then perhaps I could have
saved you right away.
- I have faith, so no worries.
No matter what happens,
everyone will be just fine.
- You get some rest.
- I'm kind of wondering.
Why have there been
no eyewitness reports of that
Moss Huge this entire time?
It's strange.
- That thing probably
avoided being seen
by never taking on anyone
that could possibly defeat it.
If it only attacked
adventurers it could defeat,
no one could tell the tale.
That's what we're dealing with.
Something very crafty.
You have to be careful.
That monster is different.
(footsteps)
- Look at that.
- A trail of blood.
- Let's follow it.
(ominous music)
(water cascading)
(ragged breathing)
- They're in bad shape.
- Oh.
Chariot, Lana.
- Is that them?
- Yes it is.
But I don't see Aleck anywhere.
- This is not going to be easy.
If we make any move to save
those elves,
not only will that
enhanced monster attack,
but so will a whole slew of
others.
- So are you saying it
knew we would come here?
- That's hard to believe.
A monster can set up a trap?
- If we want to win,
we will need to
take them all out with
a wide range of magic.
Of course the elves would
get caught in the crossfire.
- Master Bell, Lady Aisha,
you two will
take out the Moss Huge.
Master Welf, Lady Mikoto,
Master Ouka,
you three need to defeat
the other monsters
and save the elves, okay?
In the meantime, the rest of us
will watch from here so
we don't get in the way.
Does that work?
- I like it.
One thing, you are not
going to be here though.
Head for the large room
and wait there.
(monster crashing through rock)
(Great Podao Zaga slicing)
It's going to be a messy
fight you do not want to see.
- Roger that.
- Let's go.
- Please, no. Stay back.
- It's not here. This is just-
(crumbling dirt)
(Bell gasps)
(Bell yells)
(blade slicing)
- Bell!
- It will be okay.
(suspenseful music)
- Master Bell!
(monster growls)
- Fire bolt!
- Is it trying to keep
me from using magic?
Get back here.
(Bell yells)
(monster grunts)
(water splashing)
- Master Bell!
- Oh, crap. This is bad.
(water rushing)
(water cascading)
(Bell yells)
(water rushing)
- No! Master Bell!
We've got to hurry and save
Bell.
- Liliruca, stop!
You can't.
Have you lost your mind?
We already went
over how dangerous
the rapids are around here.
- I know, but it's Bell.
He needs us.
- We took care of
the smaller ones.
Now help us get the injured
people out of there.
- Dear Gods.
Lana, Chariot,
Aleck.
- Lady Aisha, Bell is gone.
- I'm well aware.
I saw it.
- Unfortunately, I can't sense
Master Bell anywhere near here.
- You have to.
- Let me make this clear!
No one is leaving to
save Bell Cranel.
- Hey. Wait a minute,
Lady Aisha.
There's no way we can
just leave him.
- You must keep your head
on straight, strategist.
It's obvious we can't
catch up to him.
Especially not with
injured in tow.
- Sorry.
- Besides, this is Bell.
He's more than capable of making
his way
out of these floors alone.
- That we're all still alive.
- I can attest that
his status is far from the norm.
He's already better than
most mid-grade level fours.
In terms of agility alone,
he's certainly among the best.
I do hate to admit this,
but Bell Cranel's stronger
than I am at this point.
I'm confident he's survived
whatever happened in that water
- Lady Aisha.
- If I'm being honest with you,
we should be more
concerned about ourselves.
You know that.
- The safety of the party
takes top priority right now.
If anything happens to us,
then we'll only be a
bigger hindrance to him.
- Fine then.
But are you okay with that?
- I have faith Master Bell is
alive.
You should too.
The situation has changed.
In that event, we should retreat
from this floor right now.
- Huh?
- But not for long.
We won't be returning to the
surface yet.
We're going back to
the cliff that was near
the entrance when we first
arrived on this floor.
I believe that spot will be
free of aquatic monsters.
Plus the Moss Huge can't ambush
us there.
We'll set up a base, a place
where we can all regroup.
Lady Aisha, you head back to
Riviera
and put in a request for help.
In the meantime,
the rest of us will
make use of Haruhime's magic.
We need to protect the
injured until help arrives.
- Okay. But what if that
enhanced monster attacks again?
Without Bell or
Antianeira around,
we won't stand a chance.
- That's exactly
what I'm planning.
We'll be waiting on a
straight road with no escape.
By luring it up to us,
we can have
Mikoto use her gravity spell.
You'll destroy the passageway
and send it plummeting all
the way down to the bottom.
Crush it flat!
One problem. The injured will
need to hold out for a bit.
But don't worry,
we'll make it back
to that location in one piece.
What do you think, Aisha?
- I think it's brilliant.
Now get ready to move
out on the double.
(footsteps)
(water rushing)
- Master Bell, I hope
you'll forgive me.
(soft sobbing)
(cascading water)
(coughing)
(uncorking bottle)
(drinking)
(labored breathing)
- I fell from all
the way up there?
I gotta hurry and get
back to the others.
(intense music)
Oh no! Iguazu.
- The most dangerous
one is this.
A flying monster
known as Iguazu.
- The fastest monster
on the lower floors.
(crashing into rock)
They look like a blur,
and there are so many.
No way!
What do I do?
Come on, think fast.
There's not enough time
for me to run for a cave.
And there are other
monsters in the water.
Is this the reality
of the dungeon?
Of the lower floors?
I'm not gonna make it.
Everybody else is
definitely fighting
their own fight right now.
And I made them a promise
that we'd all get
stronger together.
- If Miss Ais were here,
I know what she'd do.
Come and get me!
(Bell yells)
Move faster. Fight harder!
(triumphant music)
- Lili, is something wrong?
- No, it's nothing.
- Wait.
Something's coming.
- That's Dormul.
- Are you Luvis?
I can't believe you
guys are still alive.
- Hello. I take it
you're the other party
that Luvis was telling
us about before.
It's a relief to see
that you're okay.
- I guess it would seem
we've bit off more
than we can chew.
(Bell grunting)
(water rushing)
(Bell breathing heavily)
(hands clapping)
- A real mermaid?
(Ending song)
- [Bell] Next time: Mermaid.